Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome our first presenter,
Senior Networking Engineer,
Laurent Dumont.
Good morning, everybody,
and welcome to the
Core Networking Update.
So this morning we'll talk
about the goal of this session
for the Core Networking Update.
We want to do an overview of
Mac OS X networking and the
different components that are
involved in networking for Mac OS X.
And of course, we'll also talk about
what is new in Tiger,
because Tiger is a big
theme for this WWDC.
And also,
in the second part of the session,
we'll have a networking API overview.
We'll go through the different level of
APIs that we have in Mac OS X for—which
are related to networking and try to see,
you know, which API belong for you as
an application or a developer,
which API to use best fit, you know,
what you're doing.
So we'll look at that.
[Transcript missing]
All the problems that are found
are fixed as rapidly as we can.
So that's another goal.
Extensibility,
we'll talk about some new things that
we've done this year for Tiger to
extend the networking in different ways
for you guys to be able to create your
own KEXTs and those kind of things.
So we'll go in detail into that.
Another, of course,
ongoing goal is standards.
We're very, very close to standards.
We're trying to make sure that we
follow all the standards and we're a
good citizen in terms of a networking
world where different nodes are coming
from different vendors and different,
you know, vision of the world.
We're trying to make sure that
we not only follow standards,
but we also give some room to
interpretation when some usage
things are closer to the realities
and the needs of the world.
And closer to the standards.
So that's one big focus for us
also in the core networking,
making sure that we
follow all the standards.
So here we got a little
graphic trying to explain,
remind you probably for most of you,
how networking in Mac OS X is structured.
So if we look at the lower part,
the kernel part,
one of the big components of the
Mac OS X networking is in the kernel.
Just as a reminder, the downwind kernel,
which is open source,
so you guys can check out the sources
and check all the code in the kernel.
So the kernel is there.
It's made pretty much of
the BSD part of the kernel,
which has a networking part on your left,
which is a little bit highlighted,
and the file system.
Also in the downwind kernel,
we have the Mac kernel part,
which provides the basic OS services,
scheduling, memory,
all those kind of neat stuff.
Underneath that, we have the IOCit layer,
which, as driver developers know,
is what provides the
interface with your driver,
hardware driver, for a networking card
or something like that.
So if we focus a little
bit inside that part,
which is the networking,
we're based on a BSD stack.
So we have, of course, you probably know,
the socket layer on top of that,
which mirrors a
BSD socket from user land.
Underneath that, we got TCP, UDP, IPv6,
IPv4, IPsec.
All those are part of the kernel,
and we have,
and this is part of what you'll find
in a standard of BSD-like system,
and we have a little difference here,
which somehow mirror the
IOCit layer for driver,
which is the data link interface layer,
which is something specific
that we have for you to hook up,
you know, pseudo drivers or drivers
in the networking stack.
So that's how the system is structured.
On top of that, on user land,
we have the BSD socket, which provide us,
you know,
basically the POSIX-like and all the
Unix-like socket interface that most
of our other layers are based on,
the layers using networking.
And on top of BSD socket,
we get core services,
which we'll go into more detail
about the API for that level,
which are based,
CF networks and all those guys,
which are based on the BSD socket.
So that's how we get the BSD sockets,
or client of the BSD sockets.
And of course, on top of that,
we have probably your application,
which may talk directly to
the core services through
CF network or some other layer,
or directly to BSD socket,
or maybe a combination of both,
or could also talk directly to the
kernel through some other means that
we'll talk about during the session.
So,
So, yeah,
this is a little bit of a highlight
about what we're going to be
talking about here in this session.
We're focusing on the networking
part of the kernel and the BSD socket
and the other layers on top of that.
[Transcript missing]
Final kernel fine-grain locking, OK.
So why do we need?
Well, to have a little recap here,
we said we're using the
BSD side of the networking,
the stack and everything.
BSD historically has one in the kernel.
You get one thing that's
going on at a time.
So what we did previously in
Mac OS X is that we had the
mechanism which we called funnel,
which means that we were trying-- because
we have a lot of machines that are SMP,
so we got XSERVs,
but even your G5 and everything,
most of them have two
processors nowadays.
So in order to not be completely locked
into the kernel where one thing can go at
a time and everything is waiting for it,
we used to have this
mechanism we called funnel,
which basically let us do on the
one processor some networking
operation while the other
processor might be doing userland
operation or file system operation.
So we had this kind of split
personality in the kernel where
only two things could go at a time,
but two different things,
so we couldn't have two
networking operation going on.
So the problem with that is this model,
we've lived with it for a while,
and it's been working pretty well,
but it's got some
fundamental issue with it.
And one of them is not really scalable.
When you're a server, like an XSERV,
and you're trying to do just
net traffic and everything
is going through your cache,
you don't do any file system operation.
And basically,
you have one CPU which is really loaded,
and the other one is kind of idle.
So because everything is
going for the networking,
and so there's this big funnel
which blocks everything.
So what we did in Tiger is that we
changed the underpinning of all this.
So we changed the
underpinning of all this by,
instead of having those two big locks,
having finer grain locking at different
level in the networking stack and
in the rest of the kernel so that
we can have simultaneous operation
going on for different operation,
both in the file system
and in the networking.
So another thing that we added here
is-- and that was part of our previous
model issues-- is that we didn't
have reference counting for objects.
So if you add a number of objects,
you're going to have a lot of problems.
So if you added multicast addresses,
let's say, we didn't really keep track of
who added multicast addresses.
We removed it.
And in some corner cases,
we might have some issue
where we lost reference,
and so that multicast address was leaked.
So we had some problem with some
objects that might leak or might
not be in the right situation.
So we're fixing that with a fine grain
locking in the kernel and by having new--
new ref counting for most of the objects
that we're using in the networking.
And one other thing about this is
that it's transparent to application.
It's really only in the
kernel that we're changing.
The socket layer and all the
programming model for applications
that are in user land doesn't change.
However,
this is a new model for kernel extensions
because we're changing so many things
in the way the stack is structured that
kernel extension will have to change.
We'll talk about that.
So the biggest reason for
going with finer grain locking,
symmetric multiprocessing
is getting a big thing.
So arrays of XSERVs and everything,
we're trying to get maximum
power out of those machines.
And to do that,
we had to do some changes.
So the SMP improvements that we've done,
this is those finer grain looking,
you know,
networking and file systems will be
better because we get some parallelism.
We optimize the data layout
in the kernel by having,
you know,
those locks by finer objects instead of
having one big lock that gets everything,
reference counting, and also provide,
because we're changing all this,
at the same time we're providing
new stable kernel interface.
That go beyond I/O Kit.
So as a kernel extension writer,
you'll be able to use some
more stable interfaces.
So I've been talking about all this,
but anyways, just as a reminder,
this is what kernel locking
is for the BSD sign in Pantor.
So we see on the left,
networking stack in the file system,
and both of them are just, you know,
funneled by those big locks where
everything coming in or out is all,
you know, stopped by this lock.
So you need to acquire that lock
before you can do any networking
operation or file system operation.
So now if we zoom in into the
networking stack in Tiger,
we see at the socket layer,
we get some smaller locks here.
At the protocol layer, same thing,
and the interface layer, same thing.
So what it means is that if, let's say,
one application is doing
a socket operation on,
let's say, socket A on TCP, it will be,
at the same time,
we'll be able to perform another
operation in another socket without,
you know,
contending for that one lock and
serializing all those operations.
So we're getting this more
parallelism I was talking about.
So that's going to be a big win.
This is our new model.
It's still an evolving model,
but pretty much this is the direction
we're going on where we're going to get,
you know, finer locks and finer,
you know, entities that get, yeah,
get locked.
So we can have more parallelism
on different sockets.
And they're doing the same
thing for the file system.
And there's a session this afternoon
that will explain all that.
So the other big change that we
have in the kernel part this year,
which is related to the change
for the final grain locking,
is the kernel programming interfaces.
For about three, four years I think now,
we've been telling people
we're writing kernel extension,
network kernel extension.
Next year we're going to break you.
We're changing all this.
Well, this is a year.
So there is a full session
about this this afternoon.
But what happened is that because
we had to change all those
kernel structures for locking,
for ref counting and everything,
it was the right time to provide a new
API for you guys who are writing kernel
extensions that kind of isolates from the
implementation of the networking stacks
and of the internal of what we're doing.
So we have more way to improve
it or change it or fix bug.
We had a lot of problems
in the past few years.
We're trying to fix bugs and
we needed a new field in one
of the structure in the kernel.
And we've never been able to do
the right fix because some kernel
extension which was linked against the
kernel was using that field or that
structure and by adding a new field,
we were just breaking them.
So that's not a sustainable model.
So we have a lot of problems in
the long run and where to scramble
and find ways to get around that.
With this new model that we're
introducing for the final grain locking
and the new kernel programming interface,
you will not be able to get
through the structure directly.
There won't be an intimate knowledge
of the kernel implementation.
That way we can change your live
accessors and those kind of things.
And that way we can change
the implementation without
disturbing the text.
So we have a lot of
problems in the long run.
And we had to scramble and you know,
itself.
That issue with the NKs today is
that they have an intimate knowledge
of the kernel implementation.
Basically, they need to be relinked each
time we're changing something.
And there is some confusion
with those interfaces and some
missing functionality also.
So we're addressing that.
There's new KPIs.
The kernel structures are opaque now.
And there is accessor functions to
do all those things that you used
to do by directly calling into or
directly accessing those structures.
One other thing, we just talked about
the new locking model.
The locking and the reference
counting are implicit.
So when you're doing one operation,
with your NKE on a socket
or something like that,
will take care of locking that
socket for you and ref counting it.
But, you know,
we're not doing the wall job.
You will now be responsible for doing
your own locking of your own structures.
Because before,
you were protected by those funnels
where nobody else could get into your
structure when you were in there.
Now,
because of the simultaneous operation
we can get with the finer-grain locking,
it's really possible that, you know,
multiple threads will be, or your KEXT,
you know, globals,
will be accessed by multiple
threads for all we know.
So you need to,
and we'll provide primitive for that,
you need to lock your own structure also.
So one of the other things with
those kernel programming interfaces
is that we're providing a more
consistent behavior across API.
So there was some confusion.
We're trying to address that.
And the drawback of all this, as I said,
for years we said,
we're going to break you.
The Panther NKEs that you have right now,
the kernel extensions, well,
they will need to be
reworked to work on Tiger.
Because there is no way,
by doing the extensive changes
we've done in the kernel,
we can provide compatibility
with those NKEs that were,
you know, basically fetching stuff out of
structures and linking directly.
So there is no way for that.
So just a little overview here
about the networking KPI levels
that we introduced this year.
We got in dark blue here, we got socket,
you know, socket—well, we got socket KPI,
socket filter, IP filter,
plumber functions, interface filter,
and interface.
And so there is a full session
this afternoon at 3:30 talking
about those new networking KPI.
So if you're interested in this,
I highly recommend to go and see all the
glory details about what's going on here.
But I just—for people who are, you know,
just new to networking here and
so just want to make sure that
you understand that KPI— I mean,
the NKs are really a
large number of things.
So I think it's really important to use
them as far as a last resort solution
as a networking developer to do some
things that you cannot do in user land.
It's good for doing things
like content inspection.
You know,
you're trying to see what's going
on in all the packets coming
in from one interface or on one
socket to do pseudo interfaces.
It's very specific things.
Packet filtering or you're trying
to do a network file system.
So those are good cases
where you can use NKs.
But I would like first to see if you
cannot do that in user land because
working in user land is way with,
you know,
easier than working in the kernel.
In the kernel, you can panic and now we
introduce a new thing.
You can deadlock, you know.
So—and those things are not really
easy to debug for your user if your
program doesn't work very well.
You know, it will panic.
It will give a bad experience.
So the performance advantage of
working in the kernel for most
things is really negligible.
So unless you have a, you know,
really good reason, you know,
do what you have to do in user land.
We provide and we'll go through
this a bunch of other way to access
APIs and access some of the kernel
functionality from user land.
So as much as you can,
it's recommended that you use that.
So yeah,
programming in the kernel is dangerous.
And, you know,
go see the session this afternoon
at 3:30 to get all the information.
All the detail about—we'll go through all
those APIs and see what they're doing and
exactly what you have to do with that.
[Transcript missing]
So VPN improvements,
so the VPN was introduced
last year for Tiger,
for Panther, and for Tiger we were
introducing a side-to-side VPN.
It's based on the IPsec tunnel mode,
something that was requested by some
organization where they want to have
a VPN between two XSERVs in between
here and somewhere else in the world,
and they want to have a side-to-side VPN,
not just a VPN where you connect
to one server as a client.
Both sites are connected to the VPN.
So we're introducing this in Tiger.
We also have one new thing here,
which is VPN support for
something that we call split DNS.
So a little word of explanation here
is that at Apple we're using our own
VPN solution to connect from here.
I see people-- my manager.
He's connected through
VPN to the Apple network,
checking his email, I'm sure.
And so he's using our technology
here to get to the Apple campus,
to the Apple network.
And what happened is that
right now we have only one DNS.
So every DNS request that you're doing,
even if he's trying to go to yahoo.com,
it's going to go through the
Apple DNS to get that request.
With the split DNS,
what it does is that instead of--
of going-- having all the requests
going through the Apple DNS,
if we see it's not an Apple related,
it's a VPN related request,
we're going to go to
whatever your provider is,
your sbc.com DNS server,
instead of going all the
way through the Apple DNS.
That means that there is less
traffic on your VPN for traffic,
which doesn't really belong to the
secure network you're trying to access.
So-- so that's one thing that we're
introducing in the VPN support for Tiger.
Also, something that was really asked for
is support for user certificates.
So we're using AAPTLS for that.
So now the VPN will support certificates.
Um,
another thing that is pretty new is VLAN,
so 802.1Q tagging support.
Right now it's for server only.
So you probably are familiar
with what VLAN does,
but what we did there is that we
have the support for the VLAN.
It's integrated in the
network preferences.
You can also do that
through the command line,
but you can create your VLAN interface,
and, you know,
manage it from the network preferences
or the command line as you want.
It's for--at this point,
it's for Ethernet drivers
supporting the hardware VLAN,
so one of the big things is, like,
the tagging for the VLAN is
done through the hardware,
so there is almost no overhead there.
And right now, the XSERVs,
the new G5 XSERV,
supports that on both built-in cards,
or you can have add-on cards also
that-- that support VLAN tagging.
So this is for the server side
of the VLAN where you can,
you know,
basically deal with multiple tags
and multiple VLAN at the same time.
The future direction for servers
and what we're looking at,
and it's a link aggregation.
That seems to be something
that is on our path.
So the IEEE 802.3ad link aggregation is
something that we're really considering.
And also failover,
which is another feature for
those guys for the XSERVs.
Let's see.
802.1X,
so that's another thing which is present.
I mean, we introduced that in Mac OS X.
I think it was after—yeah,
it's been in some of the Panther updates.
It's essential for wireless
LAN and for the security.
It's also used on wired LAN for Ethernet.
We have a wide range of authentication
methods that we support for 802.1X.
You can read them at TLS, TLS, Leap, MD5,
Peep.
A lot of things there for 802.1X.
And some of the new things we
introduced in—we're introducing in
Tiger is the WPA enterprise support.
So that's something that was requested.
And also EAP TLS and we have some
improved certificate support in there.
That's new in Tiger.
IP configuration,
we talked in one of the first slides
about our ease of use mobility goals
there that are ongoing goal for the
core networking in Apple for Mac OS X.
And the IP configuration is something
where we added a lot of things.
So we have something that you might
know of which is called configd which
is a central demon which take care
and listen to all those events I was
talking about coming from the kernel
or coming from user lens changes from
configuration and basically reconfigures
the stack kind of dynamically
and figure out what's going on.
So the IP configuration is a big
part of what we're doing here to
provide that mobility side of things.
And some of the new things that
we're introducing in Tiger is
that we change quite a bit the way
the DHCP works as a client when
we use the remaining list time,
you know,
if there's no DHCP server around,
so we're going to be a little bit
smarter about trying to figure out,
hey, can we reuse this address?
We also use ARP, you know,
we do an ARP probing to make sure that,
okay, if the router is here, we can,
you know, kind of shave off a couple of
seconds and make your PowerBook,
you know, come up faster.
When you wake it up,
it's going to be on the network,
those kind of things.
We're also doing--a lot of
people have multiple interfaces
and multiple addresses.
So now in Tigers,
there's a concurrent ARP that are
being sent out on all the interfaces,
so we are not waiting
sequentially to get,
you know, all the information
for all the interfaces.
So there is more parallelism going there.
And we also have support for
dynamic proxy configurations and,
you know, which is known by the--this is
something that was asked for by a
bunch of people for the .Pack support.
And we talked about the split DNS.
Now we got the split DNS that
we're using for the VPN,
but we also have this split
DNS mechanism that can be used
on a bunch of other ways also.
It's part of the base of the system.
Another thing that we
introduced in Tiger at different
level of configuration,
more higher level,
this is more geared toward people
that are ISPs and things like that
that need to configure a machine
for you because you're just,
you know, getting a new DSL,
something like that.
So, until now, those people had to do a
bunch of things to figure out
what was your configuration,
your services, you know.
Now we're introducing the
high level preference API.
It's kind of an aggregate of
code that were in different
places all over the system.
So things like the network preference
panel or the network config framework,
you had to dig in and get
some of the information there,
some of the information from the
admin framework which is private and,
you know,
things like the more SCF from Quinn that,
give you some information about the code.
You can get some information
about how to get this.
But now with this new API,
we'll let you manipulate a
lot of different entities,
you know, network location, you know,
you can have location home, work,
you know, whatever.
Network services you can
manipulate with this API.
So your Ethernet seen as an
interface can be manipulated,
created, deleted, you know,
changed as an entity here by
some high level primitives.
And also the network entities,
your configuration for V4,
for configuration for DNS, for IPv6,
you know, all those kind of things can be
seen instead of like parsing the
XML or going through different
frameworks to get through those.
Now you get some higher
level way of doing that.
I talk in the highlight about the
changes that we have for IPFW2.
So IPFW2 is one thing that we
ported and put into our core.
It gives us a bunch of new things.
So it's faster.
It's more complete and more features.
So it's a lot of things there.
So more complete because
it's got rule sets.
And so you can have a different
rule sets for your firewalls that
you can turn on and off instantly.
So depending on your location,
depending on a bunch of other, you know,
sets that you decide,
you can turn on and off those
sets and have different behavior
for your firewall on the fly.
So that's something that is
much easier to do with IPFW2.
So yeah,
you can have address sets and lists.
So you can have your address list and
build that and use that and create,
you know, your rule sets that way.
So much more flexibility.
It's also have a big feature.
It's got keep alive for dynamic rules.
So it will do a much better job getting,
you know, whatever the content is that
gets filtered by the firewall,
you know, will get keep alive on those
connection and everything.
So we'll know what's going on.
So that's something we get.
So yeah.
So that's something we get from IPFW2.
It's also backward compatible
with IPFW with the previous one.
But if you're doing, you know,
an application which is a
firewall and you're based on IPFW,
what we will ask you for Tiger is to use
a new rule set because a new rule set
is more rich and we're still compatible
with the old one but we're asking you to
move on and use a new rule set so we can,
you know,
at some point deprecate the old one.
So, yeah.
So--
Following this,
what you'll see in the Control Panel,
in the Preference Panel,
is that there's a bunch of
changes that have been done
here and that are leveraging on
the fact that we have now IPFW2.
One other thing we added
in Tiger is UDP filtering.
So now you can do UDP filtering
from the UI in the Control Panel.
We got better logging.
That was one of the problems
of the previous firewall,
is that it was spewing all
its log to the main log file.
Now IPFW has its own log file,
so we have more control about this.
And also we added a mode in there,
which is a stealth mode,
which basically lets your
computer be invisible,
if you want,
on the network if you choose to do so.
And what it does is,
even if right now somebody's trying to,
let's say,
to do a connect to a TCP connect
and sending a SYN trying
to get to your port 22,
to your SSH, and SSH is off,
if you don't have the stealth mode,
what's going to happen is that
we're going to send a reset saying,
no, there's no service there.
Turning on stealth mode,
we're just going to ignore that
we're going to log that request,
but we're not going
to send anything back.
So if that's the case,
we're going to log that request.
And we're going to send a reset.
And we're going to log that request,
but we're not going
to send anything back.
So if that's the case,
we're going to log that request,
but we're not going
to send anything back.
So if that's the case,
we're going to log that request,
but we're not going
to send anything back.
If that port is not in use,
we won't even say we're here.
So if you scan or something
like that may help.
But the drawback is somebody's
trying to really connect to you.
They won't know if it's because
you're not there or because
you're just playing silent.
But it's a stealth mode.
Okay.
So one of the things—there's
a lot of changes in Rendezvous
also this year in Tiger.
I'm not going to talk into detail about
those because there's a full Rendezvous
update session on Friday at 10:30 a.m.
So there's a lot of things that
are going to get announced or
have been announced actually.
So new in Tiger, the text record API.
It's available from Java and I think
we announced at rendezvous now all the,
you know, there's much more than that.
I think we announced that everything
is on the different platforms.
You get access to the
same API and everything.
So I encourage you to go see the
rendezvous session to get all the detail
about what's new in Tiger for rendezvous.
I'd like to make a little ploy
here and just trying to get
people to be aware of IPv6.
I've been at Apple for a while
and I've been working on IPv6 for,
I don't know, many years now trying to
get IPv6 around and things.
And I think it's time for
developers to kind of try to be
aware of IPv6 and try to make sure,
you know, we've been saying IPv6
is coming and everything.
But, you know,
it's really ultimately we've done
a lot of things inside the OS to
make sure that we're ready for IPv6.
But until some of you guys come up
with a killer app that is using IPv6,
you know, it's not really going to,
you know, fly very high.
So this is like my few
slides trying to do,
to like get you,
to encourage you to go with IPv6.
So what's going on with IPv6 in Mac OS X?
So every single interface on
Mac OS X has a link local address.
So since Jaguar now,
we've been having IPv6, you know,
turned on in Mac OS X.
And one of the things you probably
noticed is those FE80 addresses
that you get on every interface.
So those are great.
That's a great integration
with Rendezvous because every
single machine on that network,
if they're, you know, Mac OS X,
will have a link local address
so they can communicate
without any configuration.
Using those addresses.
So it's a good,
it's a good way to leverage with
Rendezvous because you don't
really care about the address.
And the IPv6 addresses are, you know,
bigger and like hard
to type and everything.
But with something like Rendezvous,
you just don't care.
You just use names and you
use higher level form of,
you know, services.
So you don't really care
what the underlying address
is really 128-bit or not.
So that's a great integration with that.
And the ease of configuration,
it's a stateless configuration.
So you have a router,
it's going to pick it up.
You don't,
you're using a link local on that link.
So that's really,
really easy for you to use.
You know, there's nothing, you know,
to be worried about too much.
And as I said,
Mac OS X since Jaguar has it and
every release we're adding new,
you know, new features.
So that's a great integration.
level of support for it,
so we got support in the BSD sockets,
you know, of course.
We got the configuration since
Penter is -- you can configure in
the network configuration panel.
We can configure IPv6 or make
it auto-configured manually.
All these kinds of
things are always there.
We got a bunch of services that are IPv6.
You may not even know, but, you know,
Apple shares IPv6-aware.
You can do over FireWire, you know,
it's IPv6.
A lot of things in the system
are already IPv6-ready.
And all the frameworks that we'll
talk about later when we'll overview
the APIs are all ready for IPv6.
CF Network has been doing a lot of
work to make sure IPv6 is present
in there and that works with it.
So DNS, all those kind of things
are all IPv6-aware.
So I encourage you to
-- So for those points,
you know, it's the future.
You know,
it may not be something that we need,
you know, in the next two weeks,
but it's slowly -- it's
getting some ground there.
You know, IRD is asking for it.
Internet 2, it's mandated there.
DoD has made it something
that they require also.
And it's pretty big in Japan.
So the point is here is like your
application should be IPv6-aware.
You may not be able to or want to take,
you know, stuff from IPv6 at this point,
but at least be IPv6-aware.
And for doing this,
one of the things that you need to
do is just make sure that your model,
your application is address-independent.
And we'll see pretty
much how easy it is or,
you know, of course, you know,
it's lying with slides.
But, you know,
a little example here is showing you
how taking a BSD kind of application
where we're just doing here,
what we're doing is we're
doing a connect and,
you know,
get us by name from www.apple.com
and then we're trying to,
you know, to connect to that server here.
So this is like standard
BSD normal Unix code.
However, there is a couple of
things that are wrong here.
All those things that
are highlighted in red,
I'm not sure if you can see, yeah,
if I'm doing this,
all those things are highlighted in
red here are really address-dependent.
They are v4-dependent.
Why?
Because the structs like adder, well,
it's dependent of the
size of an IPv4 address.
Something like if I net, of course,
you know, it's IPv4.
Get us by name, well,
get us by name is the old
legacy way to get the resolver.
It's address-dependent.
And all those things
where we do a size of,
you know, that structure which is v4,
all this is going to break if you're
trying to-- to get with a v6 address.
So don't do that.
So instead of doing this,
there's--to do the same thing
to be able to have something
which is address-independent,
in this version here,
we're doing the same thing.
We're just trying to create
a socket and--actually,
here we're just trying to do
a--to resolve and get the socket
and connect--and connect to it,
you know, completely--in a completely
address-independent.
So if you have a v6 address,
it will work with v6.
If you just have a v4 address,
it doesn't change anything
which is probably the case from,
you know,
still for the few weeks to come.
It will work with IPv6.
So here, what's going on is
that instead of saying,
you know, pfinet, we're saying unspec,
which means I don't care.
It could be afinet, afinet6,
I'm ready for it.
And so we are using also
get-adder-info which is a much
richer API than--than the other API,
which is a much richer
API than get-us-by-name.
And here we're saying, "Hey, okay,
we want, you know, www.apple.com and,
you know, HTTP and we want the hints back
and the result back." And here,
depending of what we're getting
back in this for loop here,
you know, we don't even look at the
fact it's an IPv4 and IPv6.
We just, "Okay,
can I connect with what I get
in the result from my DNS query?
If I can, you know,
I don't care which protocol I use,
I'm going to connect with that."
So I know this is not really,
you know, it's not really a real-life
application and everything.
But from a developer point of view
and most of you here are developers,
the fact that it's v4 or v6
doesn't really matter once you get,
you know,
you get to your application because
you're just trying to deal with TCP,
right, or UDP, whatever you're doing.
If you--by just restructuring
your code a little bit and making,
you know-- So, you know,
you're aware of like, "Okay, you know,
my--the address I'm getting may
be more than four bytes because
it could be an IPv6 address
and it's going to be 128 bits,
you know." By taking some simple steps,
you can make sure that your
application is v6 and what
it means here is this code,
the day you turn off IPv4 or in Japan,
you know, device has those little
thermometer that just do IP,
you know, v6,
they have no v4 stack at all.
You try to connect to that device.
So, you know, if you have a device here,
you'll connect,
you'll try first in v4 or if the
DNS doesn't give you a v4 address,
you know, back,
it will give you back a v6 address,
a link local address much, you know,
probably.
And so,
you'll connect to that address here
and your code will work no matter what,
you know, if it's v4 or v6,
you don't care.
So, that's just a little, you know,
a little bit of information.
"It's a really cool thing to try to get
you guys aware of IPv6 and how it doesn't
add a lot to do that and it's easy to
just change your code to get to IPv6.
Sorry."
That was my little IPv6 talk.
So now what we're going to do
here in this session is we talked
about what's new in Tiger for
the core networking in Mac OS X.
Now we'll go back a little bit
and do a review of the different
level of API we have available
for you guys and which level,
you know,
may make more sense than another
to do your application and to
get the most of the system.
So we're going to this diagram
here showing at the bottom,
here's a kernel where we just
put the networking stack,
because we don't really
care about the rest.
So in the kernel we talked about
the fact that you can do KPI,
and there's a full session about this.
But for most people on user space,
we think about the BSD socket,
because we're Unix-based and
BSD socket is like the model there.
But there is a lot of more things
that are based on the socket API,
or also things that we
see here on the side,
like the DNS service discovery,
or the stem configuration, or lookupd,
which does the name resolution,
that you can use and
they have API provided.
So we'll go through those.
So as a reminder here,
so the BSD socket that we talked about,
the DNS service discovery,
the system configuration when
you can do network setup,
network reachability,
the connection dialup,
and also at a higher level,
the framework networking APIs,
which go with CF sockets, CF networks,
the proxy SSL,
and the network diagnostics,
foundation URL, and ultimately at the
top of the stack here,
WebKit.
So we'll go and have a little
talk about every single of those.
BSD socket,
so that's a core programming interface.
Everything in user lane is
pretty much based on that.
That's a main, raw interface,
and the native interface of the system.
What it provides,
its fundamental networking API.
I highly recommend reading the
Stevens book if you want to go through
all the details of the socket API.
It's a very rich API,
a lot of things in there.
It can be complicated,
but this is how you get
the most out of the system.
You do that when you want
performance and total control.
If you're doing a server
application and you don't really
care about all nice UI sync,
and you just want to have raw power,
I would recommend using sockets,
because sockets is the closest
you can get to the networking.
So performance, total control.
You still can use things like select or
KQs for doing asynchronous operation.
One of the things that people
tend to think that socket is like,
oh, OK, well,
I'm doing a socket operation,
I'm doing a read, I'm blocked,
and my thread is blocked
until data come back.
Well, that's one way of using sockets,
but you can also use it
in an asynchronous way,
and there is some way to do that.
But you have a lot of control,
a lot of things in the socket,
and there's plenty of books
explaining what to do.
But it can be a little bit complicated.
Also, from the socket layer,
what we do is we provide low
level access to some of the--
I was talking earlier when we were
talking about kernel extensions,
network kernel extension,
that we would like you
to avoid to all possible,
as much as possible,
to go into the kernel and get
your own kernel extension,
because it's messy, and it's dangerous,
and everything.
So we provide low level access
to a bunch of stuff from the API,
things like IPsec, or we got PFNDRV,
which is a way to get
directly to the interface.
I think I have a slide on that.
And that's where you want to use socket.
Also, a good way to use socket,
BSD compatibility and portability.
We said before we're based on free BSD.
Pretty much any tool that is using
some BSD-ism in terms of the networking
is going to compile and be working
pretty much without any touching it
on Mac OS X because of the BSD sockets,
and they're using sockets,
and we respect that paradigm here.
So BSD socket, really low level,
but gives you full control.
That's where you want to use it.
So the resolver library.
So what it does,
it does name to address resolution,
of course.
That's the thing it's known for.
Goes on the network to your DNS server
and get all the all those A,
quad A, whatever,
all those records that you're
getting and getting that.
It does also service location
and a bunch of other stuff,
actually, for the resolver library.
Like the service and it can
get things from ETC host and
all those kind of things.
So it goes hand in hand
with the Socket API.
So this is kind of the same level.
It's using the Socket API,
but it's pretty low level kind of access
to the network and the configuration.
As we said before,
it's got full IPv6 support.
So you can do query for Quade,
or you can-- everything
is ready for IPv6.
We did a lot of work last
year to get that done.
It used bind9, which is, of course,
a big standard.
And we do have the split DNS support.
So that means that as a developer here,
you can have several resolvers.
You can make it have several resolvers.
So for one part of the things,
you can say, hey,
I want to resolve use this
resolver to get the information,
because I'm on some internal network.
And I know that in my closed LAN here,
I want to use this resolver that's going
to resolve the address of . So I can send
my coworker two cubes down the line here,
and that DNS is not public out there.
So I want to use that resolver.
So the query can be dispatched
to the appropriate server,
depending on the type of the query.
So that's one of the things that we
get in the split DNS support here.
Another level of API,
which was kind of on the side here,
is the network reachability API.
So you can check what it's used for.
So you can check the name,
or the address, or an address pair,
and basically be notified when
the reachability has changed.
So you're on the road, on your powerbook.
You don't get any network access,
because you're far from Starbucks.
And now you're getting reach,
and now your network
reachability changed,
because you have
connectivity and everything.
And so this API will
tell your application,
your mail application,
or some higher level application, hey,
now is a good time to send some data,
because that host that you're trying
to reach is there at this point.
I can see it.
I can go through it.
So yeah, it's unified a set of disparate
information that are kind of piecemeal
information all over the place.
It gives you a connection status also.
So it ends get both synchronous
and asynchronous mode to use.
So DNS service discovery,
so multicast DNS to discover services.
I'm sure you're all aware with
those rendezvous functionalities,
so I'm not going to go
into detail on this.
But you get the rendezvous API, you know,
where you can name and
register your services.
You can browse for services and you can,
you know, resolve the service to address.
So for more things about rendezvous,
go to the rendezvous session Friday.
PFNDRV socket, I'll go through it.
So from user space, you have some kind of
very low level access.
So we're using it in the 802.1.x
implementation where basically we're
going directly to the interface
through this level without being
encumbered by being in the kernel
and being a kernel extension.
If you're trying to do, let's say,
a stack in user space
or something like that,
you can use that too for something
like DECnet or IPX or everything.
It's a good way.
You're getting really direct access to
the interface while being in user space.
There's some other solution
to do that also that we're
not going to talk too much.
The diverged sockets,
which are used by the NATs.
So that's another way to get packets
from a different level in user space.
And yeah,
it's preferred over the kernel extension.
So we talked about all the
things kind of in blue here.
And now we'll talk really briefly
on the things that are built on top
of the socket and all the services
that are probably for a lot of
developers the right solution to use,
because they provide some higher level.
They hide some of the complexity of the
implementation underneath of the socket.
And sometimes you just want to get
a URL you don't really care about
how it gets there and managing
all the networking side of it.
So we have this.
So the higher level frameworks here,
it's pretty much the kind of glue,
the big glue,
which is in between an application
like Safari and the raw BSD socket,
which are what we're based on.
So building the stack
from the bottom here,
the first level is core foundation.
So core foundation is
really close to socket.
And core foundation,
this is just an overview
of what it does here.
But basically, the big thing is that it's
based on the CF run loop.
And the CF run loop, if your application
is using the run loop,
you know that.
It basically provides a basic
asynchronous mechanism where
all the network operation,
instead of dealing with
the socket directly,
are kind of integrated in the run loop.
So yeah, it underlies the NS run loop.
And the Carbon events are also
based on the CF network run loop.
So the CF socket,
it's still very low level.
And it basically connects
the socket to the run loop.
So you can create your own socket.
And then put them in the run
loop or do some operations.
Still, you have a lot of control
in the socket at this point,
but kind of integrate it
with the CF run loop model.
So yeah, it literally handles any socket.
The CF stream,
that's a basic stream abstraction here.
It signals the client via the
run loop when the bytes come in.
So again,
if you're trying to be still close to
the socket and kind of have some control,
but you want to take advantage of
some of the run loop functionality,
CF streams might be a
good way to do that.
And for things that are using stream,
of course, like TCP.
Or yeah, also client side sockets are a
good way to use the CF stream.
Building on top of that,
we have CF network.
So CF network,
what it does is it provides
some protocol implementation.
So here,
you don't really care about dealing
with your own socket or your own socket.
You can do it with your
own protocol or something.
All you want is HTTP service to your
application or FTP or using SSL,
things like that.
Or even things like rendezvous
are using the CF network or
doing some DNS host resolution.
You get access to that through
the CF network framework.
Give you full control still.
All the protocol details
are exposed of HTTP.
You really have to understand
what's going on and what kind of
requests you're going to create or
what kind of response you might get
when you're using the CF network.
So it's still very, very, very core.
But you don't need to have all the
detail and do your own implementation
of HTTP if you want or FTP.
So you control each read and write.
And you also control
the threading policy,
which might be important depending on
what you're doing in your application.
So that's a good level when you
want to have control but not
too much going into the detail.
CF network is a good layer
to base your application on.
application on.
So if you continue building
up here on what's going on
between BSD Socket and Safari,
we see the foundation URL API.
So that provides more
higher level things here.
So full feature set of URL loading.
So there, you really don't care.
It just gives the URL,
and you get the result back.
You don't care what's going
on on the network side.
All the layers underneath you
are going to take care of that.
You know,
it makes most of the choices for you.
You don't have to give a lot of details,
a lot of, you know,
option and everything.
It's going to do the right thing.
Asynchronous, it's based on callbacks,
you know, API.
So for somebody who
just want to get a file,
get a URL,
that's probably the right answer here.
And also, one of the good things about
this foundation and SURL is that
it's extensible by subclassing.
So you can subclass one of the, you know,
one of the primitive
here and get your own,
you know, version of it, you know,
depending on what you're doing.
Gives, you know, advanced features,
authentication, caching,
and cookie storage and
management also at this level.
And when we get on top of that, you know,
ultimately, you know, pretty much Safari,
you get to the WebKit.
So the WebKit is the last layer we
introduced last year and it gives,
you know, very little control.
But, you know,
we do everything for you there.
So it's really, really,
it's far away from the networking,
you know, as the core we were talking
about earlier in the session.
But, you know,
it gives pluggable architecture,
new document type, you know,
a lot of things and, you know,
this is really so far
away from what I'm doing.
So I'm not going to go
into too much details.
If you want to know about more about the
CF network and all those layers here,
I highly recommend probably looking at
the CD at this point because that was
yesterday to go to Becky's session,
the Modern Networking Using CF Networks.
So that's, that will talk about all those
layers on top of BSD in much,
much greater detail than I can do here
because we're running out of time.
After this, I'd just like a goodbye slide
here for some of the deprecated
APIs that we have in Mac OS X.
First thing, the NKE PDF,
the old programming information about
what to do for network extension,
it's gone.
We talked about we're changing all that.
Go to the session this afternoon.
We'll go into more detail.
But don't use that anymore.
Don't use the old KPI there.
The old network NKE APIs, they're gone.
They won't.
Open transport API, well, you know,
CF network or the sockets
provide more flexibility.
They've been there for a while.
We're deprecating them.
So if you can, you know,
stop using it in your new application
and all those kind of things.
Apple Talk API, same thing.
We've kept, you know, Apple Talk lumping,
you know,
around in Mac OS X for a long time.
It's still there,
but the Apple Talk APIs are
deprecated now.
We think we have like a good solution now
with rendezvous for service discoveries.
There's no more need for doing
any new things on Apple Talk.
So Apple Talk APIs are
getting deprecated.
And with that,
I'd like to point you to some
more information-- who to contact.
Craig Keasley is our
I/O technology evangelist,
so use him as a contact point.
And also,
there is a Mac network programming
mailing list that you can access.
And there is a bunch of things,
reference documentation here,
all on the ADC website.
So I'm not going to go
into detail on that slide,
but pretty much you go
to the ADC networking,
and you'll see all that.